---
layout: archive
title: "Publications"
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: true
---


## [Targeted wage subsidies and firm performance](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0927537118300320)

Joint work with Oskar Nordström Skans and Johan Vikström

_Labour Economics_, 2018

This paper studies how targeted wage subsidies affect the performance of the recruiting firms. Using Swedish administrative data from the period 1998–2008, we show that treated firms substantially outperform other recruiting firms after hiring through subsidies, despite identical pre-treatment performance levels and trends in a wide set of key dimensions. The pattern is less clear from 2007 onwards, after a reform removed the involvement of caseworkers from the subsidy approval process. Overall, our results suggest that targeted employment subsidies can have large positive effects on post-match outcomes of the hiring firms, at least if the policy environment allows for pre-screening by caseworkers.

<!-- {% if author.googlescholar %}
  You can also find my articles on <u><a href="{{author.googlescholar}}">my Google Scholar profile</a>.</u>
{% endif %}

{% include base_path %}

{% for post in site.publications reversed %}
  {% include archive-single.html %}
{% endfor %} -->

<!-- <br><br>  ADDITIONAL SPACE -->



Work in progress 
=================

## Empirical Monte Carlo Evidence on Estimation of Timing-of-Events Models

<!-- Joint work with Gerard J. van den Berg and Johan Vikström -- <span style="text-decoration:underline; color:blue"> [working paper](https://www.dropbox.com/s/4zdd805pkc86uf9/empirical_mc_ToE.pdf?dl=0) </span>
 -->
Joint work with Gerard J. van den Berg and Johan Vikström -- [working paper](https://www.dropbox.com/s/4zdd805pkc86uf9/empirical_mc_ToE.pdf?dl=0)

<div style="text-align: justify"> 
The Timing-of-Events (ToE) model is a standard approach in dynamic treatment evaluation.
It provides a flexible competing risks setting where treatment and outcome hazard rates are jointly modelled
while allowing them to depend through correlated unobserved heterogeneity.
This paper adopts an Empirical Monte Carlo simulation approach to evaluate specification issues related to the estimation of ToE models.
We use Swedish unemployment spells and a rich set of background characteristics to simulate placebo treatment durations. 
Then we omit some of these characteristics when fitting ToE models, hence generating unobserved heterogeneity correlated across treatment and unemployment durations and based on real data. 
This simulation design is used to examine several specification issues. 
First, we examine the ToE performance under different types of unobserved heterogeneity, generated by omitting alternative blocks of covariates. 
Moreover, we compare different ways to select the number of mass points approximating the unobserved heterogeneity distribution. 
We also explore the specification of the baseline hazard and other implementation issues routinely encountered by researchers when estimating ToE models.</div>

## Comparing sequence data models: Prediction and dissimilarities

<!-- Joint work with Raffaella Piccarreta and Marco Bonetti -- <span style="text-decoration:underline; color:blue"> [working paper](http://www.dondena.unibocconi.it/wps/wcm/connect/cdr/centro_dondena/home/working+papers/working+paper+no.+113) </span> -->

Joint work with Raffaella Piccarreta and Marco Bonetti -- [working paper](http://www.dondena.unibocconi.it/wps/wcm/connect/cdr/centro_dondena/home/working+papers/working+paper+no.+113)

<div style="text-align: justify"> 
In this project we consider the case where information is available on different states experienced over time by a set of subjects, 
and we are interested in studying the resulting trajectories as a whole rather than the occurrence of specific events. 
Such situation commonly occurs in a variety of settings in social and biomedical studies. 
Model‐based approaches, such as multistate models or Hidden Markov models, are being increasingly used to analyze trajectories and to study their relationship with explanatory variables. 
The different assumptions underlying alternative models typically make the comparison of their predictive performance difficult. 
In this work we introduce a novel way to accomplish this task, based on microsimulation‐based predictions. 
By using simulated data, we propose alternative criteria to evaluate a given model and/or to compare competing models with respect to their ability to generate trajectories similar to the observed ones. 
</div>





